# Measuring-the-Psychological-Condition-on-Smartphone-Addiction-A-Machine-Learning-based-Application
The aim of this study was to develop a Machine Learning (ML) based classification model to determine the level of smartphone addiction among users. The research collected the experimental data from 320 smartphone users using a questionnaire and performed data analysis to identify the most important features contributing to smartphone addiction. We then applied several feature optimization techniques, including Extra Tree Classifier (XTC), Random Forest Classifier (RFC), Minimum Redundancy Maximum Relevance (mRMR), Support Vector Classifier (SVC) Feature selector, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), and Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA). Besides, this research has utilized the voting ensemble classifier by combining seven conventional classifiers. Finally, we used various machine learning algorithms to build a classification model to determine the level of smartphone addiction. Our study found that the ensemble classifier, XTC, RFC, and LDA achieved the highest accuracy of 100% when classifying the level of smartphone addiction.

The aim of this study was to develop a Machine Learning (ML) based classification model to determine the level of smartphone addiction among users. The research collected the experimental data from 320 smartphone users using a questionnaire and performed data analysis to identify the most important features contributing to smartphone addiction. We then applied several feature optimization techniques, including Extra Tree Classifier (XTC), Random Forest Classifier (RFC), Minimum Redundancy Maximum Relevance (mRMR), Support Vector Classifier (SVC) Feature selector, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), and Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA). Besides, this research has utilized the voting ensemble classifier by combining seven conventional classifiers. Finally, we used various machine learning algorithms to build a classification model to determine the level of smartphone addiction. Our study found that the ensemble classifier, XTC, RFC, and LDA achieved the highest accuracy of 100% when classifying the level of smartphone addiction
